fs: zms: multiple style fixes from previous PR review (#80628)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/services/storage/zms/zms.rst

   * - ID ATE_a2
     - ID ATE_b1
     - ID ATE_c1
   * - ID ATE_a1
     - ID ATE_b0
     - ID ATE_c0
   * - ID ATE_a0
     - GC_done ATE
     - GC_done ATE
   * - Close ATE (cyc=1)
     - Close ATE (cyc=1)
     - Close ATE (cyc=1)
   * - Empty ATE (cyc=1)
     - Empty ATE (cyc=2)
     - Empty ATE (cyc=2)

Definition of each element in the sector
========================================

``Empty ATE`` is written when erasing a sector (last position of the sector).

``Close ATE`` is written when closing a sector (second to last position of the sector).

``GC_done ATE`` is written to indicate that the next sector has already been garbage-collected.
This ATE could be at any position of the sector.

``ID ATE`` are entries that contain a 32-bit key and describe where the data is stored, its
size and its CRC32.

``Data`` is the actual value associated to the ID-ATE.

How does ZMS work?
******************

Mounting the storage system
===========================

Mounting the storage system starts by getting the flash parameters, checking that the file system
properties are correct (sector_size, sector_count ...) then calling the zms_init function to
make the storage ready.

> To mount the filesystem some elements in the ``zms_fs`` structure must be initialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mount the filesystem the following elements in the ``zms_fs`` structure must be initialized:
```

ZMS ID/data write
===================

To avoid rewriting the same data with the same ID again, ZMS must look in all the sectors if the
same ID exist then compares its data. If the data is identical, no write is performed.
If it must perform a write, then an ATE and the data (if the operation is not a delete) are written
in the sector.
If the sector is full (cannot hold the current data + ATE), it has to move to the next sector,
garbage collect the sector after the newly opened one then erase it.
Data whose size is smaller or equal to 8 bytes are written within the ATE.

ZMS ID/data read (with history)
===============================

By default ZMS looks for the last data with the same ID by browsing through all stored ATEs from
the most recent ones to the oldest ones. If it finds a valid ATE with a matching ID it retrieves
its data and returns the number of bytes that were read.
If a history count is provided and different than 0, older data with same ID is retrieved.

ZMS free space calculation
==========================

ZMS can also return the free space remaining in the partition.
However, this operation is very time-consuming as it needs to browse through all valid ATEs

> in all sectors of the partition and for each valid ATE tries to find if an older one exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in all sectors of the partition and for each valid ATE try to find if an older one exists.
```

When closing a sector, all the remaining space that has not been used is filled with garbage data
to avoid having old ATEs with a valid cycle counter.

Triggering garbage collection
=============================

Some applications need to make sure that storage writes have a maximum defined latency.

> When calling ZMS to make a write, the current sector could be almost full so that it needs to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When calling ZMS to make a write, the current sector could be almost full such that ZMS needs to
```

trigger the GC to switch to the next sector.

> This operation is time consuming and it will cause some applications to not meet their real time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation is time-consuming and will cause some applications to not meet their real time
```

constraints.
ZMS adds an API for the application to get the current remaining free space in a sector.
The application could then decide when to switch to the next sector if the current one is almost

> full. This will of course trigger the garbage collection on the next sector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
full. This will of course trigger garbage collection on the next sector.
```
or
```suggestion
full. This will of course trigger the garbage collection operation on the next sector.
```

This will guarantee the application that the next write won't trigger the garbage collection.

ATE (Allocation Table Entry) structure
======================================

An entry has 16 bytes divided between these fields:

> See :c:struct:`zms_ate` structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :c:struct:`zms_ate` structure.
```

.. note:: The CRC of the data is checked only when the whole element is read.
   The CRC of the data is not checked for a partial read, as it is computed for the whole element.

.. warning:: Enabling the CRC feature on previously existing ZMS content that did not have it
   enabled will make all existing data invalid.

Available space for user data (key-value pairs)
***********************************************

> ZMS should always have an empty sector to be able to perform the garbage collection (GC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZMS always needs an empty sector to be able to perform the garbage collection (GC).
```
It cannot do without, right?

For a partition that has 4 sectors of 1024 bytes and for data size of 64 bytes.
Only 3 sectors are available for writes with a capacity of 944 bytes each.
Each key-value pair needs an extra 16 bytes for the ATE, which makes it possible to store 11 pairs
in each sector (:math:`\frac{944}{80}`).
Total data that could be stored in this partition for this case is :math:`11 \times 3 \times 64 = 2112 \text{ bytes}`.

Wear leveling
*************

This storage system is optimized for devices that do not require an erase.

> Using storage systems that rely on an erase value (NVS as an example) needs to emulate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storage systems that rely on an erase value (NVS as an example) need to emulate the
```

erase with write operations. This causes a significant decrease in the life expectancy of
these devices as well as more delays for write operations and initialization of the device when

> it is still empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is empty.
```

ZMS uses a cycle count mechanism that avoids emulating erase operations for these devices.
It also guarantees that every memory location is written only once for each cycle of sector write.

As an example, to erase a 4096-byte sector on devices that do not require an erase operation
using NVS, 256 flash writes must be performed (supposing that ``write-block-size`` = 16 bytes), while
using ZMS, only 1 write of 16 bytes is needed. This operation is 256 times faster in this case.

> The garbage collection operation also reduces the memory cell life expectancy as it makes write

Reviewer: correcting myself :slightly_smiling_face: 
```suggestion
The garbage collection operation also reduces the memory cell life expectancy as it performs write
```

operations when moving blocks from one sector to another.
To make the garbage collector not affect the life expectancy of the device it is recommended
to correctly dimension the partition size. Its size should be the double of the maximum size of
data (including headers) that could be written in the storage.

See `Available space for user data <#Available-space-for-user-data-key-value-pairs>`_.

Device lifetime calculation
===========================

> Storage devices whether they are classical flash or new technologies like RRAM/MRAM have a limited

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storage devices, whether they are classical flash or new technologies like RRAM/MRAM, have a limited
```

A typical scenario is shown here to calculate the life expectancy of a device:
Let's suppose that we store an 8-byte variable using the same ID but its content changes every
minute. The partition has 4 sectors with 1024 bytes each.
Each write of the variable requires 16 bytes of storage.
As we have 944 bytes available for ATEs for each sector, and because ZMS is a fast-forward
storage system, we are going to rewrite the first location of the first sector after
:math:`\frac{(944 \times 4)}{16} = 236 \text{ minutes}`.

In addition to the normal writes, the garbage collector will move the data that is still valid
from old sectors to new ones.
As we are using the same ID and a big partition size, no data will be moved by the garbage
collector in this case.
For storage devices that can be written 20 000 times, the storage will last about
4 720 000 minutes (~9 years).

To make a more general formula we must first compute the effective used size in ZMS by our
typical set of data.
For ID/data pairs with data <= 8 bytes, ``effective_size`` is 16 bytes.
For ID/data pairs with data > 8 bytes, ``effective_size`` is ``16 + sizeof(data)`` bytes.

> Let's suppose that ``total_effective_size`` is the total size of the set of data that is written in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's suppose that ``total_effective_size`` is the total size of the data that is written in
```

Which one to use in your application will depend on your needs and the hardware you are using,
and this section provides information to help make a choice.

- If you are using devices that do not require an erase operation like RRAM or MRAM, :ref:`ZMS <zms_api>` is definitely the
  best fit for your storage subsystem as it is designed to avoid emulating erase operation using
  large block writes for these devices and replaces it with a single write call.

> - For devices with large write_block_size and/or needs a sector size that is different than the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For devices that have a large ``write_block_size`` and/or need a sector size that is different than the
```

***************************************

Sector size and count
=====================

- The total size of the storage partition should be set appropriately to achieve the best
  performance with ZMS.
  All the information regarding the effectively available free space in ZMS can be found
  in the documentation. See `Available space for user data <#Available-space-for-user-data-key-value-pairs>`_.
  It's recommended to choose a storage partition size that is double the size of the key-value pairs
  that will be written in the storage.
- The sector size needs to be set to be able to hold the maximum data size that will be stored.
  Increasing the sector size will slow down the garbage collection operation and make it occur
  less frequently.
  Decreasing its size, on the opposite, will make the garbage collection operation faster but also
  occur more frequently.
- For some subsystems like :ref:`Settings <settings_api>`, all path-value pairs are split into two ZMS entries (ATEs).
  The headers needed by the two entries should be accounted for when computing the needed storage
  space.
- Storing small data (<= 8 bytes) in ZMS entries can increase the performance, as this data is

>   written within the entry header.

Reviewer: Entry or entry header?

Author: entry header is confusing as there are some special entries called header entries.
Will change that to "entry"

More generally to make the right choice between NVS and ZMS, all the blockers should be first
verified to make sure that the application could work with one subsystem or the other, then if
both solutions could be implemented, the best choice should be based on the calculations of the
life expectancy of the device described in this section: `Wear leveling <#wear-leveling>`_.

Recommendations to increase performance
***************************************

Sector size and count
=====================

- The total size of the storage partition should be set appropriately to achieve the best
  performance with ZMS.
  All the information regarding the effectively available free space in ZMS can be found

>   in the documentation. See `Available space for user data <#Available-space-for-user-data-key-value-pairs>`_.

Reviewer: This link actually doesn't work (could the documentation build be made to fail in such case @kartben?).
I think it's due to the uppercase. The label doesn't have any.
```suggestion
  in the documentation. See `Available space for user data <available-space-for-user-data-key-value-pairs>`_.
```
Ditto for line 282.
